Infinite response is a subset of contingency planning.
Before we dig into that,
let's cover some basics.
Contingency planning is the process of preparing a company to detect,
react to, and recover from threats to assets.
The main goal is to bring the company back to a state
of normal operations following a disruptive event.
As seen in many events,
including the hurricanes in the US in the past that forced 1,000
patients to relocate to other hospitals in order to get treatment.
Unfortunately, in that situation,
12 people lost their lives in a facility that lost power as a part of that incident.
This is a true testament to the importance of contingency planning and having backups.
There are three key parts to contingency planning that I'll walk you through.
Now, let's dig right in. The first key part of contingency planning is incident response.
Incident response is the process of detecting and
responding to limit consequences of a malicious,
unintentional or circumstantial cyber attack against an organization's systems.
This is triggered when there is an adverse event,
like a loss of access or detection of intrusion that has been declared an incident.
The next key part of contingency planning is business continuity.
Business continuity is a predetermined process
that describes how an organization's mission
and business processes will be sustained during and after a significant disruption.
The main goal of business continuity is to keep the organization running even if
it's at an alternate site or at a reduced capacity until things can be fully restored.
The final key part of contingency planning is disaster recovery.
Disaster recovery is a predetermined process that details
how critical applications and processes will be restored to
normal operations typically at the primary business site in the event of
a major hardware or software failure or if there is destruction of facilities.
The main goal here is to completely recover and bring things back to normal.
Another important element to note is that each of
the three contingency planning components is driven by business impact analysis,
which is a fundamental part of contingency planning that discloses
how adverse threats can impact company assets in the first place.